Fundraising is a key component of every campaign.
There’s not a campaign I’ve ever been involved
with, which ultimately doesn’t come down to your
ability to raise some funds to keep it going. And
this is something that they didn’t have a lot of
skill at. And if you’ve ever been to a community
event where, you know, you charge as much as
people want to give, you realize how little money
you make and how much time goes into supposed
fundraiser. No, let’s have a real fundraiser.
Let’s have something that would actually raise
real money. And so, the Oyster Bar fundraiser was
literally the outcome of that. It was the ability
to actually connect with people who had money,
who would support the cause, and you ask them for
real money.
I’m known to be loud and demanding
when [laughs] the time comes to get money, to get
people to give. So, it came naturally that that
was the role that I play, to squeeze every dollar
out of the room. Absolutely for a good cause.
Because I’ve done it before in myriads of
fundraiser. My late husband, Jack Layton,
also specialized in that, so, between us, we used
our mouth for a cause.
To get the context of how
this developed, when she got elected to Metro
Council, and I came on board, and we formed
a partnership that we would spend the time we
have available to us to try to use that office
to change the world. And so, when something like
the Pussy Palace raid happened, that office just,
kind of, came alive. One of the things we knew
what to do was to raise funds, and the Pussy
Palace defence team needed money to be raised.
It was easy. [laughs] I’ve been to events where
I would call out, and there would be silence.
And that was the exact opposite. [laughs] So,
joyous giving, or giving because of rage, giving
to go, “huh, here we are,” as a form of power.
It doesn’t matter if it’s five bucks, 10
bucks, or 100 bucks. Didn’t matter. It
was that feeling that, “yeah, we are in
this together.” A sense of unity. Let’s
show them. [laughs] Being able to feel that
intensity was wonderful and unforgettable. Now,
there wasn’t a huge amount of money in the room,
but people dug deep.
What struck me right away
was the way in which the organizers were behaving.
They had their boas on, they were holding up their
panties. They were not acting as if they’re in
a Rodney’s Oyster House, you know, in front of
people who have thousands of dollars, and they are
going to come to them, really sweet, bowing their
head and saying, “Could we have some money for our
cause?” They weren’t there just to get money. They
were there to keep alive what the whole purpose
of the Pussy Palace was, which is a celebration
of female sexuality. And that was on display the
whole time. I don’t think Rodney’s Oyster House
has ever had such an event. [Gallagher and Chow
chuckle] I know I’ve never seen one like that.